---
sidebar_position: 2
---

# Technical Support Tiers and Service Level Agreements (SLAs)

## Premium Support Plans
Ontotext provides 3rd Level Support as part of its Premium Support Plans.

**Available Optional Premium Support Plans:**
* Premium 24/7 3rd Level SLA
* Premium Business Hours 3rd Level SLA

**Premium Business Hours 3rd Level SLA Plans:**
* Support Plan B
* Support Plan A

### Terms and Conditions for Premium Business Hours 3rd Level SLA Plans:

* Premium Business Hours 3rd Level Support offers response times within standard working hours:
  * CET time zone for Europe: Business hours are 8am - 5pm
  * EST time zone for USA: Business hours are 8am - 5pm
* Additional support hours beyond the prepaid monthly support plan are subject to an additional rate.

### Definition of Premium Business Hours 3rd Level SLA Plans

The SLA plans provide an annual subscription for pre-paid packages of technical support services, defined in terms of 
monthly limits for (i) effort and (ii) the number of Urgent and Major incidents, as follows:

| Monthly Allowances                             | Plan A | Plan B |
|------------------------------------------------|--------|--------|
| Pre-paid support hours (all incident types)[i] | 36     | 16     |
| Urgent Incidents                               | 4      | 1      |
| Major and Urgent Incidents[ii]                 | 6      | 3      |
| Guaranteed support capacity (hours)[iii]       | 60     | 30     |

**[i]** 'Pre-paid support hours' represent the number of person-hours (per month) that will be paid for by the client, 
whether they are utilized or not. Pre-paid support hours cannot be carried over from one month to the next.

**[ii]** 'Major and Urgent Incidents' refer to the total of major and urgent incidents supported. 
For example, Support Plan B supports up to 3 major incidents in a given month OR 2 major incidents and 1 urgent incident. 
The intention is not to force a major incident to be treated as urgent just because the allowance for major incidents for that month has been used up.

**[iii]** 'Guaranteed support capacity' indicates the maximum amount of support person-hours that Ontotext can provide if necessary.
Extra hours above the monthly allowance must be paid for on top of the monthly fee for that particular plan. 
This figure is intended to provide reassurance that Ontotext can allocate staff resources for the resolution of a particularly time-consuming problem.

**Classification of Incidents:**

| Severity | Response Time*  | Resolution Time |
|----------|-----------------|-----------------|
| Urgent   | within 2 hours  | 24 hours        |
| Major    | within 24 hours | 5 days          |
| Minor    | Any time        | 15 days         |

For tickets submitted after 5 pm or outside of business working hours, the response time countdown starts from 9:00 am on the next business day.

* **Urgent:** An incident that causes a production outage or poses an imminent threat to production,
  either due to software failure or loss/corruption of data rendering the software unusable.
* **Major:** An incident that could or does significantly affect the performance or functionality of the production system.
  It is an important technical issue that, if not resolved, may lead to an urgent severity level issue within a few days.
* **Minor:** An incident that affects the production environment but allows workarounds or slightly degraded performance. 
  It does not pose a threat of production outage. If a software fix is required, it can wait for the next scheduled release

You can find more information about our Maintenance and Support terms [here](https://www.ontotext.com/services/support-and-operations/).

## Development Support Packages
In addition to Maintenance and Support we also offer optional Development Support Packages with
the intention to assist our customers implementation teams and make sure that they make
the most of GraphDB. The package may include services like:
1. Consulting and support related to approaches for data and ontology modelling.
2. Consulting and support with regards to strategies for data ingestion.
3. Consulting and support with regards to strategies for data integration.
4. Consulting and support related to scenarios for data consumption.
5. Consulting and support related to development of SPARQL queries
6. Review of performance testing scenarios:
   a. query analysis
   b. optimization
7. Review of caching and index approaches

**Development Support Packages implementation specifics:**
* Utilization of the 10-Day Dev support package is fixed within a 6-month period
* The 10-Day package is pre-paid, irrevocable and non-transferable
* Development support is provided only remotely from Ontotext HQ


Communication: Please refer to [How to receive support](SUP-001).