---
sidebar_position: 4
---

# (RM-004) Managing AWS service limits

When deploying GraphDB on AWS, it's important to manage the AWS service limits to ensure optimal performance and resource availability.

This guide provides recommendations on managing AWS service limits based on GraphDB sizing conditions, specifically focusing on hardware sizing considerations.

## Understanding Hardware Sizing

To properly size the hardware resources for your GraphDB deployment, you need to estimate the number of explicit statements in your dataset.
On average, a dataset has a ratio of 3:1 statements to unique RDF resources. 
The total number of statements determines the expected repository image size, while the number of unique resources affects the memory footprint required for repository initialization.

## Recommended Parameters for RAM and Disk Sizing
Please refer to [(SIZ-001) Sizing and required resources](../sizing/SIZ-001) 

## AWS Service Limits Management:

Based on the estimated hardware requirements, you should manage the following AWS service limits:

* EC2 Instance Type: Ensure that you select an EC2 instance type that provides the required RAM and CPU resources to 
accommodate the total RAM recommended for your hardware configuration.
* EBS Volume Size: The EBS volume size should be sufficient to store the repository image based on the estimated size in the table.
* VPC Limits: Check the VPC limits to ensure that you have enough IP addresses available for your deployment.
* Security Group Rules: Review the security group rules to allow inbound and outbound connections required for GraphDB.
* IAM Roles and Policies: Verify that the IAM roles and policies associated with your EC2 instances have the necessary 
  permissions to access other AWS services like S3 for backups or CloudWatch for monitoring.

## Monitoring and Scaling:

Once your GraphDB deployment is up and running, regularly monitor the resource utilization, database performance, and AWS service limits.

If you encounter performance issues or reach service limits, consider scaling up your hardware resources or adjusting your GraphDB configuration accordingly.
