---
sidebar_position: 3
---

# Deployment Options

The Enterprise Edition is the commercial version of GraphDB, which offers enterprise grade clustering 
and resiliency capabilities.

## High Availability Cluster (12 cores)

* **Use Case:** Suitable for small to medium-scale applications or projects with moderate data processing needs.
* **Application:** Suitable for deploying production-grade applications where data volume and processing demands are relatively moderate.
* **Performance:** Offers a reasonable level of performance for handling medium-sized graphs and queries.
* **Support:** Includes [SLA Plan B Support](../support/SUP-002#Definition-of-Premium-Business-Hours-3rd-Level-SLA-Plans), 
  providing a level of technical assistance and issue resolution.

## High Availability Cluster (24 cores)

* **Use Case:** Ideal for medium to large-scale applications or production environments 
  with higher data processing requirements.
* **Application:** Suitable for deploying production-grade applications handling larger and more complex graph datasets.
* **Performance:** Provides enhanced performance compared to the 12-core option, allowing for better scalability 
  and improved query response times.
* **Support:** Includes [SLA Plan A Support](../support/SUP-002#Definition-of-Premium-Business-Hours-3rd-Level-SLA-Plans),
  offering a higher level of technical support, faster response times, and priority issue resolution.

## High Availability Cluster (48 cores)

* **Use Case:** Suited for large-scale enterprise applications or scenarios with significant data processing
  and query demands.
* **Application:** Suitable for mission-critical applications, big data analysis, and enterprise-level graph processing.
* **Performance:** Offers the highest level of performance among the three options, enabling efficient processing 
  of large and complex graph datasets.
* **Support:** Includes [SLA Plan A Support](../support/SUP-002#Definition-of-Premium-Business-Hours-3rd-Level-SLA-Plans),
  providing premium technical assistance and priority access to support resources.


For further information on the high availability features, please refer to the [documentation](https://graphdb.ontotext.com/documentation/10.3/cluster-basics.html#high-availability-features).

For details on sizing please refer to [Sizing and required resources](../sizing/SIZ-001).

In addition, we provide private offers, allowing us to tailor solutions specifically to your unique requirements.

Please contact a [GraphDB representative](https://www.ontotext.com/contact/) for a private offer. 