---
sidebar_position: 5
---

# Supported AWS Regions

We support a wide range of AWS regions to provide flexibility and cater to users across different geographical locations. 
You can choose the AWS region that best suits your needs based on factors such as proximity,
compliance requirements, and latency considerations.

The following is a list of AWS regions that we support:

* **US East (N. Virginia)** (us-east-1)
* **US East (Ohio)** (us-east-2)
* **US West (N. California)** (us-west-1)
* **US West (Oregon)** (us-west-2)
* **Asia Pacific (Mumbai)** (ap-south-1)
* **Asia Pacific (Osaka)** (ap-northeast-3)
* **Asia Pacific (Seoul)** (ap-northeast-2)
* **Asia Pacific (Tokyo)** (ap-northeast-1)
* **Asia Pacific (Singapore)** (ap-southeast-1)
* **Asia Pacific (Sydney)** (ap-southeast-2)
* **Canada (Central)** (ca-central-1)
* **EU (Ireland)** (eu-west-1)
* **EU (London)** (eu-west-2)
* **EU (Frankfurt)** (eu-central-1)
* **EU (Paris)** (eu-west-3)
* **EU (Stockholm)** (eu-north-1)
* **South America (Sao Paulo)** (sa-east-1)

When deploying our services, you can choose any of the above regions to host your applications and take advantage 
of the associated AWS infrastructure and our AMI. 

Each region operates independently and provides multiple availability zones to ensure high availability 
and fault tolerance.

Please note that availability of specific services and features may vary across regions. 
It is recommended to consult the AWS documentation or contact our support team for any region-specific considerations 
or limitations.

We continuously evaluate and update our support for additional regions based on customer demand and AWS availability. 

Choose the AWS region that best aligns with your requirements and start leveraging GraphDB's capabilities
in your preferred geographical location.